README.md, before:

# Spatiotemporal modeling of wildfire extremes

[![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes/)
[![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes/)


This repository contains code to build spatiotemporal models of wildfire extremes in the contiguous United States. 

## Hardware requirements

We recommend at least 4 physical CPUs and 30 GB of RAM. 

## Reproducing the analysis

### Spinning up the computational environment

We have provided a Docker container that bundles up the software dependencies for this project, and provides an RStudio server instance that can be used in a web browser. 
To launch the container, run the following:

```bash
docker run -d -p 8787:8787 mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes
```

Then, navigate to port 8787 on a web browser (e.g., localhost:8787) and log in with username `rstudio`, password `rstudio`. 

### Running the analysis

To run everything, you can type the following command from a terminal: 

```
make
```

## Overview of workflow

We split the workflow into three steps: 

### 1. Data processing 

Climate, housing, and wildfire data are acquired and cleaned via:

```bash
make data
```

### 2. Model training and evaluation

TODO: describe

### 3. Manuscript generation

TODO: describe

Commit message:

Adding more detail on starting an RStudio project

README.md, after:

# Spatiotemporal modeling of wildfire extremes

[![Docker Automated build](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes/)
[![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes/)


This repository contains code to build spatiotemporal models of wildfire extremes in the contiguous United States. 

## Hardware requirements

We recommend at least 4 physical CPUs and 30 GB of RAM. 

## Reproducing the analysis

### Spinning up the computational environment

We have provided a Docker container that bundles up the software dependencies for this project, and provides an RStudio server instance that can be used in a web browser. 
To launch the container, run the following:

```bash
docker run -d -p 8787:8787 mbjoseph/wildfire-extremes
```

Then, navigate to port 8787 on a web browser (e.g., localhost:8787) and log in with username `rstudio`, password `rstudio`. 

### Optional: creating an RStudio project

If you plan to interact much with the code, you may want to create an RStudio project. 
To do so, after connecting to your RStudio server, choose File > New Project..., then select "Existing Directory" > Browse..., and choose wildfire-extremes, and finally click Create Project. 
This will create and then open a project associated with this repository.

### Running the analysis

To run everything, you can type the following command from a terminal: 

```
make
```

## Overview of workflow

We split the workflow into three steps: 

### 1. Data processing 

Climate, housing, and wildfire data are acquired and cleaned via:

```bash
make data
```

### 2. Model training and evaluation

TODO: describe

### 3. Manuscript generation

TODO: describe
